---
title: "Can XMODEL simulate nonlinear circuits or systems?"
document_type: "qna_post"
date: "2019-03-15 05:36:45"
post_id: 1372
products: ["XMODEL"]
topics: ["nonlinear circuits/systems"]
primitives: ["pwl_func", "poly_func", "sin_func", "exp_func", "nmosfet", "pmosfet", "diode"]
---

# Q. Can XMODEL simulate nonlinear circuits or systems?

From the introductory materials, I understand that XMODEL is capable of fast, event-driven simulation by representing the signals using functional expressions and computing the response of a given system in Laplace domain. However, this explanation applies only to linear systems with Laplace-domain transfer functions. Can XMODEL simulate nonlinear systems or circuits?

## Answers

### A1

Yes, XMODEL can simulate nonlinear circuits/systems as well as linear circuits/systems in the same event-driven manner. For instance, XMODEL supports function primitives such as `pwl_func`, `poly_func`, `sin_func`, and `exp_func` that can perform nonlinear operations, and circuit primitives such as `nmosfet`, `pmosfet`, `diode`, and `cap_var` that represent nonlinear elements.  
Nonlinear systems produce responses that are more diverse and complex than those of linear systems. XMODEL basically uses two methods to express such responses of nonlinear systems. One is to increase the number of terms in the signal’s functional expression and the other is to introduce additional events. Each has advantages and disadvantages and XMODEL uses the more effective one depending on the cases. For instance, XMODEL uses the former method for multiply primitive and the latter method for circuit primitives like `nmosfet`.  
If you want to probe this topic further, you can refer to the academic papers listed below:

> - J.-E. Jang, M.-J. Park, and J. Kim, “An Event-Driven Simulation Methodology for Integrated Switching Power Supplies in SystemVerilog,” ACM/IEEE Design Automation Conf. (DAC), June 2013.  
> - J.-E. Jang, S.-J. Yang, J. Kim, “Event-Driven Simulation of Volterra Series Models in SystemVerilog,” IEEE Custom Integrated Circuits Conf. (CICC), Sept. 2013.  
> - J.-E. Jang and J. Kim, “PPV-Based Modeling and Event-Driven Simulation of Injection-Locked Oscillators in SystemVerilog,” IEEE Trans. Circuits and Systems I, Aug. 2015.
