---
title: "Defining a delay with a parameter or variable storing an absolute time value"
document_type: "qna_post"
date: "2022-10-12 05:22:01"
post_id: 3821
products: ["XMODEL"]
topics: ["timescale", "delay"]
primitives:
---

# Q. Defining a delay with a parameter or variable storing an absolute time value

I’d like to make the delays in my SystemVerilog modules independent of the simulation timescale. To this end, I know SystemVerilog supports the use of absolute time values in the delay expressions:

```
assign #(2ns) out = ~in;
```

However, when a parameter or variable is defining the delay amount, the value stored in the parameter or variable is always interpreted as a relative time value.

```
assign #(delay) out = ~in;
```

It makes the actual delay vary with the timescale defined for the simulation. I could add a `'timescale` directive within the module so that the timescale is under my control, but I am worried that defining the timescale to my preference may in turn affect other modules without the `'timescale` directives.
Is there a better way to define a delay using a parameter or variable storing the absolute time value?

## Answers

### A1

Yes, there is. You can use a `$xmodel_reltime()` system function to convert the absolute time value of the parameter or variable to a relative time value and use the result to define your delay. Here is an example of defining a delay using the absolute time value stored in the parameter `'delay'`:

```
module my_inv (input in, output out);

parameter real delay = 200e-12;                // absolute time value

real delay_r;
initial delay_r = $xmodel_reltime(delay);      // relative time value

assign #(delay_r) out = ~in;                   // delay expression

endmodule
```

During the initial step, the `$xmodel_reltime()` system function converts the absolute time value stored in the parameter `'delay'` to a relative time value and a real-type variable `'delay_r'` keeps the result. Then, you can use the variable `'delay_r'` to define your delay. Note that this absolute-to-relative time value conversion reflects the timescale effective within each context and may produce different results depending on the location if you are using multiple timescales in your design hierarchy.
For your information, XMODEL offers both `$xmodel_abstime()` and `$xmodel_reltime()` system functions. When they are called without any argument, they respectively return the absolute and relative time values of the current simulation time.

```
current_absolute_time = $xmodel_abstime();
current_relative_time = $xmodel_reltime();
```

On the other hand, when they are called with a real-type argument, they perform the relative-to-absolute and absolute-to-relative time value conversions, respectively.

```
absolute_time_value = $xmodel_abstime(relative_time_value);
relative_time_value = $xmodel_reltime(absolute_time_value);
```

The input and output values of `$xmodel_abstime()` and `$xmodel_reltime()` are all real-typed. And the results reflect the effective timescale within the given context.
