---
title: "Executing the GLISTER netlister from the Linux command line"
document_type: "qna_post"
date: "2022-12-29 02:36:08"
post_id: 3884
products: ["GLISTER"]
topics: ["GLISTER netlister"]
primitives:
---

# Q. Executing the GLISTER netlister from the Linux command line

I am writing a batch script to automate the model extraction flow. Is it possible to execute the GLISTER netlister from the Linux command line to extract the XMODEL netlists from the model schematics?

## Answers

### A1

Yes, it is possible. You can use the `'glister'` command from the Linux command line. The basic usage is:

```
$ glister <libname>:<cellname>:<viewname> -c <CDSLIB_PATH> -o <OUTPUT_PATH>
```

The argument `'<libname>:<cellname>:<viewname>'` specifies the library, cell, and view names of the cellview to be netlisted delimited by colons (`:`). The `'-c'` option specifies the path of the directory containing the `cds.lib` file. If this option is not specified, the current directory path (`.`) is assumed. On the other hand, the `'-o'` option specifies the path of the directory that will store the output netlist files. If this option is not specified, GLISTER will store the files in a directory path constructed using the `$XMODEL_SIMDIR` environment variable and the library, cell, and view names of the cellview.
For example, using the command below, you can generate netlists from the `saradc:tb_sar_adc:schematic` cellview contained in the GLISTER Tutorial, located in the directory `$XMODEL_HOME/tutorial/glister_basic`:

```
$ glister saradc:tb_sar_adc:schematic -c $XMODEL_HOME/tutorial/glister_basic/cadence
```

For your information, this `'glister'` command is simply a wrapper script that launches Cadence Virtuoso in a non-graphical mode and issues the SKILL command for GLISTER netlisting (`xmodelGenNetlist`). Therefore, its execution still requires the proper licenses, such as the license for accessing the Cadence database (e.g. the feature '111') and also the license for using GLISTER.
