---
title: "How to enable UVM with XMODEL simulation"
document_type: "qna_post"
date: "2022-12-29 04:10:54"
post_id: 3891
products: ["XMODEL"]
topics: ["UVM"]
primitives:
---

# Q. How to enable UVM with XMODEL simulation

For me, the `'xmodel'` launcher script provides a consistent interface for running XMODEL simulations with multiple different SystemVerilog simulators. For example, my company has licenses for VCS, Xcelium, and Questa, and I can easily switch from one simulator to another when certain tool licenses are in shortage.
However, I recently started using UVM testbenches with XMODEL and noticed that the `'xmodel'` launcher script lacks options for enabling UVM libraries. I am currently using the `--elab-option` and `--sim-option` options to supply the simulator-dependent options for enabling UVM, and I am now back to the Stone Age. I have to manage a different set of commands and options for each SystemVerilog simulator.
Can `'xmodel'` support simulator-independent options for enabling UVM?

## Answers

### A1

Starting with the XMODEL 2023.01 Release, you can use `'--uvm'` and `'--uvm-option'` options with the `'xmodel'` launcher script. The `'--uvm'` option enables the UVM library and `'--uvm-option'` option lets you specify the UVM command-line options such as `+UVM_TESTNAME`, `+UVM_VERBOSITY`, etc. Here is an example:

```
$ xmodel <other options> --simtime inf --uvm --uvm-option +UVM_VERBOSITY=UVM_HIGH --
```

When you use an `'--uvm'` option without any argument, it enables the default built-in UVM library supported by the SystemVerilog simulator. As of this writing, most of the SystemVerilog simulators select UVM 1.1 or 1.1d by default. If you'd like to use a different version of UVM included in the SystemVerilog simulator installation, you can add an argument specifying the version, for example `'--uvm 1.2'` or `'--uvm ieee'`. The list of UVM libraries built into each SystemVerilog simulator may vary. For example, Synopsys VCS (T-2022.06) supports the versions of `1.1`, `1.2`, `ieee`, and `ieee-2020`, Cadence Xcelium (21.09) supports `1.1d`, `1.2`, `1.2-ML`, and `IEEE`, and Siemens Questa (21.4) supports `1.1c`, `1.1d`, and `1.2`. If you'd like to use your own UVM library instead of the built-in ones, you can also specify its path with the `'--uvm'` option, e.g. `'--uvm /PATH/TO/YOUR/UVM/LIBRARY'`.
With the `'--uvm-option'` option, you can specify the UVM command-line options such as `+UVM_TESTNAME` and `+UVM_VERBOSITY`. Its usage and effects are similar to those of the `'--sim-option'` option in a sense that you can list multiple UVM command-line options between `'--uvm-option'` and `'--'` and the listed options are passed as-is to the command executing the simulation. However, by listing the UVM command-line options with the `'--uvm-option'` instead of with the `'--sim-option'`, you can indicate that those options are independent of the SystemVerilog simulator.
On the other hand, the `'--simtime inf'` option used in the above example lets the simulation run without a specific end time. That is, the simulation runs until it meets a `$stop` or `$finish` command or until there are no further events scheduled. It is a useful option to use with a UVM testbench, which often needs to run until certain criteria are met.
