---
title: "Determining the version of the FSDB reader and writer API libraries"
document_type: "qna_post"
date: "2023-09-08 08:41:19"
post_id: 4341
products: ["XMODEL"]
topics: ["FSDB reader", "API libraries"]
primitives:
---

# Q. Determining the version of the FSDB reader and writer API libraries

I understand the XMODEL tools use the FSDB reader and writer API libraries made by Synopsys to read and write FSDB-format waveform files. The FSDB reader API library is named `"libnffr.so"` and the FSDB writer API library is named `"libnffw.so"`. I notice that these libraries are not only provided in the Synospys Verdi product, but also included in various other products, such as Synopsys VCS and even Cadence Xcelium. I found that XMODEL works well with all the FSDB API libraries included in these different products.
I also noticed that the FSDB format has a notion of version, and the version of the FSDB reader/writer API library gets updated quite frequently. For the past 10 years or so, I've seen FSDB versions ranging from 5.6 to 6.1, and this version value depends on which FSDB API library is selected during the XMODEL or XWAVE execution. But the trouble is, the FSDB format is not forward compatible; that is, the FSDB reader API cannot read an FSDB-format waveform file if it is created with the FSDB writer API with the higher version. When this happens, I have to either find an FSDB reader API with the higher version or re-create the waveform file using the FSDB writer API with the lower version.
But I cannot tell the versions of the FSDB API libraries from their file names -- they are all named `"libnffr.so"` and `"libnffw.so"`. Is there a way to determine the version of a given FSDB reader or writer API library file?

## Answers

### A1

Thank you for describing your needs in detail. To address your difficulty, we've introduced a utility script named `'fsdbvers'` starting with the XMODEL 2023.08 Release. Using this `'fsdbvers'` script, you can determine the version of a given FSDB reader or writer API library file.
The usage of this `'fsdbvers'` script is fairly simple. Just provide the path to the FSDB API library file along with an option that indicates whether the file is expected to be a reader API library (`'--reader'`) or a writer API library (`'--writer'`).
The following example shows how to determine the version of an FSDB reader API library located in `/PATH/libnffr.so`.

```
$ fsdbvers --reader /PATH/libnffr.so
FSDB Reader API:
    Path    : /PATH/libnffr.so
    Release : Verdi_P-2019.06
    Version : 5.8
```

And the next example shows how to determine the version of an FSDB writer API library located in `/PATH/libnffw.so`.

```
$ fsdbvers --writer /PATH/libnffw.so
FSDB Writer API:
    Path    : /PATH/libnffw.so
    Release : Verdi_T-2022.06-SP2-1
    Version : 6.1
```

When you provide a path without a `'--reader'` or `'--writer'` option, the script looks for the FSDB API libraries included in its hierarchy and reports their versions.

```
$ fsdbvers /cad/synopsys/verdi/T-2022.06-SP2-1
FSDB Reader API:
    Path    : /cad/synopsys/verdi/T-2022.06-SP2-1/share/vcst/linux64/libnffr.so
    Release : Verdi_T-2022.06-SP2-1
    Version : 6.1

FSDB Writer API:
    Path    : /cad/synopsys/verdi/T-2022.06-SP2-1/share/vcst/linux64/libnffw.so
    Release : Verdi_T-2022.06-SP2-1
    Version : 6.1
```
