---
title: "Exporting waveform data in CSV format"
document_type: "qna_post"
date: "2024-07-31 07:34:53"
post_id: 4699
products: ["XMODEL"]
topics: ["csv format", "XMULAN Python library"]
primitives:
---

# Q. Exporting waveform data in CSV format

I'd like to post-process the waveforms simulated by XMODEL, using other tools. Is there a way to export the waveform data in a text format, such as CSV (comma-separated values)?

## Answers

### A1

Yes, you can use the XMULAN Python library to read a waveform file in JEZ format and export its waveform data in another format. Here is an example of a Python script exporting the waveform of a signal named `'TOP.A'` stored in a file named `'xmodel.jez'` in CSV format.

**export\_waveform.py:**

```
#!/usr/bin/env xmodelpy

import xmulan
import csv

waveform_filename = "xmodel.jez"
signal_name       = "TOP.A"             
output_filename   = "data.csv"

# read waveform data
row = xmulan.rowml().readmeas(waveform_filename)
trace = row[signal_name]
wf = trace.get_waveform()
T, V = wf.sweep[0,:], wf

# write time-value pairs in CSV format
csvfile = open(output_filename, "w")
writer = csv.writer(csvfile)
writer.writerows(zip(T, V))
csvfile.close()
```

The script shown above will work equally well for `xreal`, `xbit`, `real`, `wire`, `reg`, and `bit` type signals. But for `xreal` type signals, you have multiple ways to get their time-value pairs.
For example, the `get_waveform()` method used in the script, by default, returns the time-value pairs of points that approximate the original waveform when they are connected in a piecewise-linear fashion. In this case, the returned points may have non-uniform time spacings.

```
wf = trace.get_waveform()
T, V = wf.sweep[0,:], wf
```

Alternatively, one may want to obtain the time-value pairs of points with uniform time spacings. To achieve this, you can use the `mode="fixedstep"` argument and assign the timestep value to the `'tstep'` argument.

```
wf = trace.get_waveform(mode="fixedstep", tstep=1e-12)
T, V = wf.sweep[0,:], wf
```

Also, you can obtain the values of the waveforms sampled at a set of arbitrary time instants. Here is an example of sampling the waveform at 20ps intervals from 0 to 100ns.

```
import numpy as np

T = np.r_[0.0:100e-9:20e-12]
V = trace.eval_at(T)
```
